.NET enterprise chat app (#37819)
dotnet/docs: docs/azure/ai/get-started-app-chat-template.md

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Begin now](#open-development-environment)

By following the instructions in this article, you will:

- Deploy a chat app to Azure.
- Get answers about employee benefits.
- Change settings to change behavior of responses.

Once you complete this procedure,you can start modifying the new project with your custom code.

This article is part of a collection of articles that show you how to build a chat app using Azure Cognitive Search and OpenAI.

Other articles in the collection include:

* [Python](/azure/developer/python/get-started-app-chat-template)
* [JavaScript](/azure/developer/javascript/get-started-app-chat-template)
* [Java](/azure/developer/java/get-started-app-chat-template)

## Architectural overview

A simple architecture of the chat app is shown in the following diagram:

:::image type="content" source="../media/get-started-app-chat-template/simple-architecture-diagram.png" alt-text="Diagram showing architecture from client to backend app.":::

Key components of the architecture include:

* A web application to host the interactive chat experience.

> * An Azure Cognitive Search resource to get answers from your own data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* An Azure Cognitive Search resource to index your data for relevant queries.
```

* An Azure OpenAI Service to provide:

>   * Keywords to enhance the search over your own data.

Reviewer: This line doesn't make sense, oh, is that part of the semantic kernel flow?

  * Answers from the OpenAI model.

>   * Embeddings from the ada model

Reviewer: Not sure what that is, but I didn't think we were using that mdoel.

## Cost

> Most resources in this architecture use a basic or consumption pricing tier. Consumption pricing is based on usage, which means you only pay for what you use. To complete this article, there will be a charge but it will be minimal. When you are done with the article, you can delete the resources to stop incurring charges.

Reviewer: Is this still true, or is there a free version?

Author: There is no free version to my knowledge

> Learn more about [cost in the sample repo](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azure-search-openai-demo-csharp#cost-estimation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see [Azure Samples: Cost in the sample repo](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azure-search-openai-demo-csharp#cost-estimation).
```

## Prerequisites

A [development container](https://containers.dev/) environment is available with all dependencies required to complete this article. You can run the development container in GitHub Codespaces (in a browser) or locally using Visual Studio Code.

> To use this article, you need the following prerequisites:

Reviewer: To follow along with this article, perhaps? Not to use it...

1. [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
1. [Dev Container Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers)

---

## Open development environment

Begin now with a development environment that has all the dependencies installed to complete this article.

#### [GitHub Codespaces (recommended)](#tab/github-codespaces)

[GitHub Codespaces](https://docs.github.com/codespaces) runs a development container managed by GitHub with [Visual Studio Code for the Web](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/vscode-web) as the user interface. For the most straightforward development environment, use GitHub Codespaces so that you have the correct developer tools and dependencies preinstalled to complete this article.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> All GitHub accounts can use Codespaces for up to 60 hours free each month with 2 core instances. For more information, see [GitHub Codespaces monthly included storage and core hours](https://docs.github.com/billing/managing-billing-for-github-codespaces/about-billing-for-github-codespaces#monthly-included-storage-and-core-hours-for-personal-accounts).

> 1. Start the process to create a new GitHub Codespace on the `main` branch of the [`Azure-Samples/azure-search-openai-demo-csharp`](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azure-search-openai-demo-csharp) GitHub repository:

Reviewer: Back ticks don't render and can sometimes cause issues when placed within a link like this.

```suggestion
1. Start the process to create a new GitHub Codespace on the `main` branch of the [Azure-Samples/azure-search-openai-demo-csharp](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azure-search-openai-demo-csharp) GitHub repository:
```

    > [!div class="nextstepaction"]
    > [Open this project in GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/codespaces/new?azure-portal=true&hide_repo_select=true&ref=main&repo=624102171)

> 1. On the **Create codespace** page, review the codespace configuration settings and then select **Create new codespace**

Reviewer: Need either a `:` or a `.`, I suggest a `:`.

```suggestion
1. On the **Create codespace** page, review the codespace configuration settings and then select **Create new codespace**:
```

---

## Deploy and run

The sample repository contains all the code and configuration files you need to deploy a chat app to Azure. The following steps walk you through the process of deploying the sample to Azure.

### Deploy chat app to Azure

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Azure resources created in this section immediate costs, primarily from the Cognitive Search resource. These resources may accrue costs even if you interrupt the command before it is fully executed.

1. Run the following Azure Developer CLI command to provision the Azure resources and deploy the source code:

    ```bash
    azd up
    ```

1. When you're prompted for an environment name, enter a value of your choice, such as `dotnetai`. The environment name influences the naming of provisioned Azure resources.
1. When you're prompted to select a location the first time, select a location near you. This location is used for most the resources including hosting.
1. When you're prompted for a location for the OpenAI model, select a location that is near you. If the same location is available as your first location, select that.

> 1. Wait until app is deployed. It may take 5-10 minutes for the deployment to complete.

Reviewer: I thought that there were wait times up to 20 mins, have you tested this? @bradygaster do you recall how long it would take?

Author: You're correct about this

    * What is included in my Northwind Health Plus plan that is not in standard?
    * What happens in a performance review?
    * What does a product manager do?

    :::image type="content" source="../media/get-started-app-chat-template/browser-chat-initial-answer.png" alt-text="Screenshot of chat app's first answer.":::

1. From the answer, select a citation. A pop-up window will open displaying the source of the information.

    :::image type="content" source="../media/get-started-app-chat-template/browser-chat-initial-answer-citation-highlighted.png" alt-text="Screenshot of chat app's first answer with its citation highlighted in a red box.":::

1. Navigate between the tabs at the top of the answer box to understand how the answer was generated.

    |Tab|Description|
    |---|---|
    |**Thought process**|This is a script of the interactions in chat. You can view the system prompt (`content`) and your user question (`content`).|
    |**Supporting content**|This includes the information to answer your question and the source material. The number of source material citations is noted in the **Developer settings**. The default value is **3**.|

>     |**Citation**|This displays the original page that contains the citation.|

Reviewer: It's not the original, it's more like a slice of the original.

```suggestion
    |**Citation**|This displays the source page that contains the citation.|
```

> 1. When you are done, navigate back to the answer tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. When you're done, navigate back to the answer tab.
```

|Exclude category|This is the category of documents that are excluded from the search results.|
|Use semantic ranker for retrieval|This is a feature of [Azure Cognitive Search](/azure/search/semantic-search-overview#what-is-semantic-search) that uses machine learning to improve the relevance of search results.|
|Retrieval mode|**Vectors + Text** means that the search results are based on the text of the documents and the embeddings of the documents. **Vectors** means that the search results are based on the embeddings of the documents. **Text** means that the search results are based on the text of the documents.|
|Use query-contextual summaries instead of whole documents| Limits the query to only search summarized data instead of a more thorough search of the full document. |
|Suggest follow-up questions|Have the chat app suggest follow-up questions based on the answer.|

The following steps walk you through the process of changing the settings.

1. In the browser, select the gear icon in the upper right of the page.
1. Check the **Suggest follow-up questions** checkbox and ask the same question again.

>     ```

Reviewer: 💡 ProTip! Even though this isn't a valid language slug, we know that it will render as a pass thru - letting us put anything in there we want. Since we have control of it, we could do either "Text" or "Input".

```suggestion
    ```Text
```

    What is my deductible?
    ```

    The chat returns follow-up question suggestions such as the following:

    ```

>     1. What is the cost sharing for out-of-network services?

Reviewer: They're not actually numbered, are they? Instead of a code block, consider a list with quoted strings.

    2. Are preventive care services subject to the deductible?
    3. How does the prescription drug deductible work?
    ```

1. In the **Settings** tab, deselect **Use semantic ranker for retrieval**.
1. Ask the same question again.

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```Text
```
